Learn Queries

Avatar
Queries: AsNarrative and Instructions
Learn
QUERIES
As
Knowing how SELECT works, suppose we have the code below:

SELECT name AS 'Titles'
FROM movies;
Can you guess what AS does?

AS is a keyword in SQL that allows you to rename a column or table using an alias. The new name can be anything you want as long as you put it inside of single quotes. Here we renamed the name column as Titles.

Some important things to note:

Although it’s not always necessary, it’s best practice to surround your aliases with single quotes.
When using AS, the columns are not being renamed in the table. The aliases only appear in the result.
Instructions
1.
To showcase what the AS keyword does, select the name column and rename it with an alias of your choosing.

Place the alias inside single quotes, like so:

SELECT name AS '______'
FROM movies;
Note in the result, that the name of the column is now your alias.

Checkpoint 2 Passed

Hint
Suppose you want to rename the name column as Binge, then the query would look like:

SELECT name AS 'Binge' 
FROM movies;
If this is your query, then the name of the column in the result would be Binge.

The underscores are only there for directional purposes.

2.
Edit the query so that instead of selecting and renaming the name column, select the imdb_rating column and rename it as IMDb.

Checkpoint 3 Passed

Hint
The AS syntax is as follows:

SELECT column AS 'Nickname' 
FROM table_name;
To rename the imdb_rating to IMDb:

SELECT imdb_rating AS 'IMDb' 
FROM movies;
Put single quotes around the alias.
SQL commands end with a ;.
There should only be one column in the result and its name should now be IMDb.

Concept Review
Want to quickly review some of the concepts you’ve been learning? Take a look at this material's cheatsheet!
Community Forums
Here are some helpful links to the top questions asked by coders about this exercise:

Can we alias multiple columns in a single query?
Still have questions? View this exercise's thread in the Codecademy Forums.
Code Editor
12
SELECT imdb_rating AS 'IMDb'
FROM movies;
SQLPreview
Query Results
Run a query to see results.

3. As
3/15
