Learn Queries

Avatar
Queries: AndNarrative and Instructions
Learn
QUERIES
And
Sometimes we want to combine multiple conditions in a WHERE clause to make the result set more specific and useful.

One way of doing this is to use the AND operator. Here, we use the AND operator to only return 90’s romance movies.

SELECT * 
FROM movies
WHERE year BETWEEN 1990 AND 1999
   AND genre = 'romance';
year BETWEEN 1990 AND 1999 is the 1st condition.

genre = 'romance' is the 2nd condition.

AND combines the two conditions.

AND Venn Diagram

With AND, both conditions must be true for the row to be included in the result.

Instructions
1.
In the previous exercise, we retrieved every movie released in the 1970’s.

Now, let’s retrieve every movie released in the 70’s, that’s also well received.

In the code editor, type:

SELECT *
FROM movies
WHERE year BETWEEN 1970 AND 1979
  AND imdb_rating > 8;
Checkpoint 2 Passed

Hint
We are putting AND imdb_rating > 8 on another line and indented just so it is easier to read.

2.
Remove the previous query.

Suppose we have a picky friend who only wants to watch old horror films.

Using AND, write a new query that selects all movies made prior to 1985 that are also in the horror genre.

Checkpoint 3 Passed

Hint
What are the two conditions?

year < 1985
genre = 'horror'
So your query should look like:

SELECT *
FROM movies
WHERE year < 1985
   AND genre = 'horror';
We indented and placed AND genre = 'horror' on another line just so it is easier to read.

Also, numeric values (1985) don’t need to be wrapped with single quotes, whereas string values do ('horror').

Concept Review
Want to quickly review some of the concepts you’ve been learning? Take a look at this material's cheatsheet!
Community Forums
Here are some helpful links to the top questions asked by coders about this exercise:

Is the AND used in BETWEEN the same as the AND operator used between multiple conditions?
Still have questions? View this exercise's thread in the Codecademy Forums.
Code Editor
123
SELECT *
FROM movies
WHERE year < 1985 AND genre = 'horror';
SQLPreview
Query Results
Run a query to see results.

10. And
10/15
