Learn Queries

Avatar
Queries: Order ByNarrative and Instructions
Learn
QUERIES
Order By
That’s it with WHERE and its operators. Moving on!

It is often useful to list the data in our result set in a particular order.

We can sort the results using ORDER BY, either alphabetically or numerically. Sorting the results often makes the data more useful and easier to analyze.

For example, if we want to sort everything by the movie’s title from A through Z:

SELECT *
FROM movies
ORDER BY name;
ORDER BY is a clause that indicates you want to sort the result set by a particular column.

name is the specified column.

Sometimes we want to sort things in a decreasing order. For example, if we want to select all of the well-received movies, sorted from highest to lowest by their year:

SELECT *
FROM movies
WHERE imdb_rating > 8
ORDER BY year DESC;
DESC is a keyword used in ORDER BY to sort the results in descending order (high to low or Z-A).

ASC is a keyword used in ORDER BY to sort the results in ascending order (low to high or A-Z).

The column that we ORDER BY doesn’t even have to be one of the columns that we’re displaying.

Note: ORDER BY always goes after WHERE (if WHERE is present).

Instructions
1.
Suppose we want to retrieve the name and year columns of all the movies, ordered by their name alphabetically.

Type the following code:

SELECT name, year
FROM movies
ORDER BY name;
Checkpoint 2 Passed

Hint
We didn’t add ASC here because ascending order is the default.

If you run this code, the result will start with ‘1408’, ‘3 Men and a Baby’ and then A-Z.

2.
Your turn! Remove the previous query.

Write a new query that retrieves the name, year, and imdb_rating columns of all the movies, ordered highest to lowest by their ratings.

Checkpoint 3 Passed

Hint
What are the columns that are selected and the table we are interested in?

SELECT name, year, imdb_rating
FROM movies;
Next, let’s sort them.

SELECT name, year, imdb_rating
FROM movies
ORDER BY imdb_rating DESC;
We added DESC here because we want to sort it in a descending order.

If you run this query, the result will start with movies with an IMDb rating of 9.0 all the way down to 4.2.

Concept Review
Want to quickly review some of the concepts you’ve been learning? Take a look at this material's cheatsheet!
Community Forums
Here are some helpful links to the top questions asked by coders about this exercise:

In SQL, can we apply ORDER BY with multiple columns?
Still have questions? View this exercise's thread in the Codecademy Forums.
Code Editor
1234
SELECT *
FROM movies
WHERE genre = 'romance'
OR genre = 'comedy';
SQLPreview
Query Results
Run a query to see results.

12. Order By
12/15
